---
marp: true
math: katex
paginate: true
backgroundColor: #fff
title: 1.2 Classification of Signals
categories:
  - Digital Communications
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
tags:
  - [Sklar, Signals and Spectra, Classification of Signals]
date: 2023-02-06
last_modified_at: 2023-02-06
---

## 목표

> 어떻게 신호를 나눌 수 있는지 알아 볼 수 있음
> 각 소 챕터 별로 어떻게 연관이 있는지?

---

## Deterministic and Random Signals

- Relation betweene classification and this chapter
  - classification's method

- What is deterministic
  - No uncertainty with respect to its value at any time
- What is random
  - Some degree of uncertainty before the signal actually occurs.

---

- What is difference between deterministic and random?
  - expression method
- Deterministic
  - explicit mathematical expressions
- Random signals
  - not possible
  - random process
    - when examined over a long period
      - 장기간의 조사
    - Probabilities and statistical averages
      - Useful for characterizing signals and noise in communication systems.

---

## Periodic and Nonperiodic Signals

### Periodic signal

$$
x(t)=x(t+T_0)\quad \text{for}-\infty<t<\infty
$$

- The period $T_0$: the duration of one complete cycle of $x(t)$

### Nonperiodic signals

- No value of $T_0$ that satisfies above Equation

---

## Analog and Discrete Signals

### Analog signals

- A continuous function of time

### Discrete signals

- Signal present only in discret times
- A sequence of numbers defined for each time, $kT$
  - $T$: a fixed time interval

---

## Energy and Power Signals

---

### Energy Signals

- The performance of a communication system depends on the received signal energy

$$
\begin{split}
E_x&=\lim_{T\rightarrow\infty}\int^{T/2}_{-T/2}{x^2(t)}dt\\
&=\int^{\infty}_{-\infty}{x^2(t)}dt
\end{split}
$$

- $x(t)$: energy signal

---

### Power Signals

- The rate at which energy is delivered
  - what과 relation과 difference 동시에
  - the power determines the voltages that must be applied to a transmitter and the intensities of the electronmagnetic fields that one must contend with in radio systems

$$
P_x=\lim_{T\rightarrow\infty}{1\over{T}}\int^{T/2}_{-T/2}{x^2(t)}dt
$$

---

### vs

content|energy signal|power signal
-|-|-
energy|finite|infinite
power|infinite|finite
periodic|periodic|nonperiodic
deterministic|random|deterministic

---

## The Unit Impulse Function

### Why introduce?

- useful function in communication theory

---

### What is this?

- an infinitely large amplitude pulse with zero pulse width, and unity weight, concentrated at the point where its argument is zero.

#### Relationship

$$
\int^\infty_{-\infty}\delta(t)dt=1\\
\delta(t)=0\quad \text{for}t\neq0\\
\delta(t)\text{ is unbouned at }t=0\\
\int^\infty_{-\infty}x(t)\delta(t-t_0)dt=x(t_0)
$$

---

### When useful?

- interpret $\delta(t)$ as a unit-area pulse of finite amplitude and nonzero duration
- sifting or sampling property
  - the unit impulse multiplier selects a smaple of the function $x(t)$ evaluated at $t=t_0$
