---
marp: true
math: katex
paginate: true
backgroundColor: #fff
title: 5.4 Link Budget Analysis
categories:
  - Digital Communications
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
tags:
  - [Link Budget]
date: 2023-02-07
last_modified_at: 2023-02-07
---

## Preview

- [ ] What is link budget analysis
- [ ] What insight does this analysis provide

---

## Introduction

### evaluating system performance

- satellite communication systems

### For linear modulation, such as amplitude modulation (AM)

- the power in the carrier is quite different than the power in the modulating signal
- the parametersss $C/N$ and $P_r/N$ are the same for constant-envelope signaling (e.g., PSK or FSK) but are different for nonconstant-envelope signaling (e.g., ASK, QAM)

---

### It applies to any one-wsay RF link

$$
{P_r\over{N}}={\text{EIRP }G_r/N\over{L_s}}
$$

- with analog receivers
  - the noise bandwidth seen by the demodulator is usually greater than the signal bandwith, and $P_r/N$ is the main parameter for measuring signal detectability and performance quality.
- with digital receivers
  - correlators or matched filters are usually implemented, and signal bandwidth is taken to be equal to noise bandwidth.

---

### replace noise power with noise power spectral density

$$
{P_r\over{N}}={\text{EIRP }G_r/T^{\degree}\over{\kappa L_sL_o}}
$$

- $T^{\degree}$: the system effective temperature
  - a function of the noise radiated into the antenna and the thermal noise generated within the first stages of the receiver.
- $G_r/T^{\degree}$: the receiver figure-of-merit

---

### Key parameter

- $T^\degree$: a parameter that models the effect of various noise sources
- $L_0$: a factor that allows for the large assortment of different losses and noise sources cataloged earlier.

#### the key parameter of any link analysis

- $P_r/N_0$: the received signal power-to-noise power spectral density
- $\text{EIRP}$: the effective transmitted power
- $G_r/T^\degree$: the receiver figure-of-merit
- $L_s,L_0$: the losses

---

### Relation between $E_b/N_0$ and SNR for the received power $P_r$

$$
{P_r\over{N_0}}={E_b\over{N_0}}R
$$

- $R$: the bit rate
- For designing and evaluating systems

---

## Two $E_b/N_0$ Values of Interest

- [x] 두 값이 무엇인지?
- [x] 두 비교 값에서 얻을 수 있는 것
- [x] 그 값이 왜 필요한지?
- [x] 어떻게 계산 하는지?

---

- $(E_b/N_0)_{reqd}$: the required $E_b/N_0$
- $(E_b/N_0)_{r}$: the actual or received $E_b/N_0$
- $M$: margin or safety factor

$$
{P_r\over{N_0}}=\left({E_b\over{N_0}}\right)_rR=M\left({E_b\over{N_0}}\right)_{reqd}R
$$

$$
M(\text{dB})=\left({E_b\over{N_0}}\right)_r(\text{dB})-\left({E_b\over{N_0}}\right)_{reqd}(\text{dB})
$$

---

### Link margin equation

$$
M={\text{EIRP}\over{(E_b/N_0)_{reqd}R\kappa L_sL_0}}
$$

- contains all of the parameters contributing to the link's error performance
- these are defined with reference to particular locations
  - $E_b/N_0$: the input to the receiver
  - Any parameter describing received energy or power: this predetection point
  - $G_r/T^\degree$: the input to the receiving antenna
  - $\text{EIRP}$: the power associated with the electromagnetic wave at the output of the ransmitting antenna

---

## Link budgets Are Typically Calculated in Decibels

- [x] 데시벨로 계산 했을 때 얻는 것?

---

$$
M(\text{dB})=\text{EIRP}(\text{dBW})+G_r(\text{dBi})-\left({E_b\over{N_0}}\right)_{reqd}(\text{dB})-R(\text{dB-bit/s})\\
-\kappa T^\degree(\text{dBW/Hz})-L_s(\text{dB})-L_0(\text{dB})
$$

- the numerical values of this equation parameters constitute the link budget
  - a useful tool for allocating communications resources
  - in an effort to **maintain a positive margin**, we might **trade off** any parameter with any other parameter

---

## How Much Link Margin Is Enough?

- [x] 제목의 답

---

- if all sources of gain, loss and noise have been rigorously detailed
- if the link parameters with large variances match the statistical requirements for link availability
- very little additional margin is needed.

---

## Link Availability

- [x] what?
- [x] why?

---

### Definition

- a measure of long-term link utility stated on an average annual basis

### Purpose

- the percentage of time the link can be closed.
