---
marp: true
math: katex
paginate: true
backgroundColor: #fff
title: 5.3 Received Signal Power and Noise Power
categories:
  - Digital Communications
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
tags:
  - [Received Signal Power,Noise Power]
date: 2023-02-04
last_modified_at: 2023-02-04
---

## The Range Equation

---

### Relation

- link budget과의 관계
  - link budget의 감시를 통한 내용 산출 프로세스의 시작

---

- power와의 관계
  - power received to the **distance** between transmitter and receiver

- power와의 관계를 설명하는 example
  - 수식적으로 표현하기 위함
  - env: radio communication system
  - assumption
    - isotropic radiator
      - omnidirectional RF source, transmitting uniformly over 4$\pi$ steradians.

---

- power density $p(d)$ on a hypothetical sphere at a distance $d$ from the source
  - is related to transmitted power $P_t$

$$
p(d)={P_t\over{4\pi d^2}} \quad \text{watts/m}^2
$$

- $4\pi d^2$: the area of the sphere

---

### Power extracted with the receiving antenna

$$
P_r=p(d)A_{er}={P_tA_{er}\over{4\pi d^2}}
$$

- $A_{er}$: absorption cross section (effective area) of the receiving antenna

$$
A_{er}={\text{total power extracted}\over{\text{incident power flux density}}}
$$

- An antenna's effective area and physical area are realted by an efficiency parameter $\eta$

$$
A_e=\eta A_p
$$

- The total incident power is not extracted.

---

### Antenna directivity (Directive gain)

- The antenna paramter that relates the power output (or input) to that of an isotropic radiator as a purely geomatric ratio

$$
G={\text{maximum power intensity}\over{\text{average power intensity over }4\pi \text{ steradians}}}
$$

### Effective Isotropic Radiated Power (EIRP)

$$
\mathbf{EIRP}=P_tG_t
$$

---

### Conclusion

- General case in which the transmitter has some antenna gain relative to an isotropic antenna

$$
P_r=\mathbf{EIRP}{A_{er}\over{4\pi d^2}}
$$

- The relationship between antenna gain and antenna effective area

$$
G={4\pi A_e\over{\lambda^2}}
$$

- $\lambda$: the wavelength of the carrier

---

- The effective area of an isotropic antenna by setting $G=1$

$$
A_e={\lambda^2\over{4\pi}}
$$

- The power received when the receiving antenna is isotropic

$$
P_r={\mathbf{EIRP}\over{(4\pi d/\lambda)^2}}={\mathbf{EIRP}\over{L_s}}
$$

- $L_s=(4\pi d/\lambda)^2$: Path loss (or free-space loss)

- when the receiving antenna is not isotropic

$$
P_r={\mathbf{EIRP}G_r\lambda^2\over{(4\pi d)^2}}={\mathbf{EIRP}G_r\over{L_s}}
$$

---

- The range equation

$$
P_r={\mathbf{EIRP}G_r\lambda^2\over{(4\pi d)^2}}
$$

---

## Received Signal Power as a Function of Frequency

---

$$
P_r={P_tG_tA_{er}\over{4\pi d^2}}
$$

- when starting with a fixed transmitting anttena gain (or beam width)
- the paramater $A_{er}$ is not fixed.

---

$$
P_r={P_tA_{et}A_{er}\over{\lambda^2d^2}}
$$

- The antennas have already been built or their dimensions are fixed.
- The received power incdeases as the wavelength is decreased.

---

$$
P_r={P_tA_{er}G_r\over{4\pi d^2}}
$$

- $A_{et}$ and G_r are fixed.

---

$$
P_r={P_tG_tG_r\lambda^2\over{(4\pi d)^2}}
$$

- Both the transmitting and receiving antenna gains are fixed.

---

## Path Loss Is Frequency Dependent

$$
L_s=(4\pi d/\lambda)^2
$$

- What insight it provides?
  - Path loss represents a hypothetical received-power loss that would occur if the receiving antenna were isotropic.

- Why should path loss, which is just a geo-metric inverse-square loss, be a function of frequency?
  - It is a definition predicated on the use of an isotropic recieving antenna ($G_r=1$)

---

## Thermal Noise Power

- Thermal noise is caused by the thermal motion of electrons in all conductors.
- It is generated in the lossy coupling betwee an antenna and receiver and in the first stages of the receover.

### Maximum thermal noise power

$$
N=\kappa T^{\degree} W\quad \text{watts}
$$

### Maximum single-sided noise power spectral density

$$
N_0={N\over{W}}=\kappa T^{\degree} \quad \text{watts/hertz}
$$
